---
title: Introduction
icon: ph:dog
toc: true
---

# Why We Build Codedog

## Problem
In the software development process, the primary goal of code review is to ensure the stability and improvement of the overall quality of the codebase. However, to achieve this goal, we face a series of constraints.

1. **Almost all development teams face time pressures to complete tasks on time.** The cost of a decline in codebase quality is hidden and long-term, while the pressure to complete objectives is explicit and real-time. Therefore, development teams may reduce their investment in design and testing, leading to a gradual decline in code quality.

2. **Effective code review requires a high level of competency from the reviewers.** They often need to have rich experience and knowledge in both the team's technology stack and business scenarios. The time of these reviewers is very scarce. As the business expands, the amount of code to be reviewed grows exponentially, as does the amount of code review.

These challenges highlight the critical need for Codedog to introduce AI into the code review scene. With the assistance of AI, we can address these issues and achieve a better balance between **on-time delivery**, **human resource cost**, and **code quality**.

## Solution

Specifically, Codedog is currently exploring two directions:

1. **AI-assisted code review**: Codedog aims to have AI generate preliminary code change assessment reports to assist reviewers in conducting code reviews. This innovative approach helps reviewers understand code faster, identify potential issues, and ultimately increase their efficiency.

2. **AI-driven code review**: By leveraging AI capabilities, Codedog aims to automate the identification of simple issues and provide improvement suggestions. This not only reduces the workload of reviewers but also ensures a more thorough and comprehensive review process.
